Ramoji Film City;filmcity;17.254301;78.680767;9.00 A.M - 5.30 P.M;Adult: Rs.1000/-<n>Child (3-12 Yrs): Rs.900/-;1800 4250 9999;Located at a distance of 30 km from the city of Hyderabad, Ramoji Film City is on the NH-9. Built in the year of 1991, Ramoji Film City is one of the most popular sightseeing places of Hyderabad.<p>One of the largest and glamorous film studios in the world, Ramoji Film City has also place in the Guinness Book of World Records. Spread across an area of almost 2500 acres, it is one of the major film making facility of the country offering everything related to pre and post film production. The architecture of the studio and the wide range of settings makes it one of the favourite spot for many film makers.<p>With a capacity to accommodate close to 50 film units at the same time, Ramoji Film City offers umpteen numbers of film sets such as London Street, Hollywood sign, Japanese gardens, airport, hospital, etc., landscapes and buildings as well as laboratories.
Shilparamam;shilpa;17.452515;78.379321;10.00 A.M - 8.00 P.M;Rs.40 per person for Adults<n>Rs.20 per person for Children<n>Rs.30 per person Boating charges<n>Rs.15 per person for Battery operated car;040-64518164;Located at a distance of 14 km from the heart of Hyderabad city, Shilparamam is a craft village which presents various traditional arts and crafts by artisans from all over the country. A perfect place for art lovers, Shilparamam is one of the popular tourist spots in Hyderabad.<p>Spread across an area of 50 acres, Shilparamam not just showcases various artefacts and traditionally made handicrafts but is also a home for various performing artists. In its complete form, the complex of Shilparamam is supposed to have Crafts Museum, Cultural Museum, Art Gallery & Library, Multi-purpose Auditorium, Common Facility Workshops and Research & Design Centre along with accommodation facilities for artists and visitors. This is an ideal place for long walks too; its natural greenery dotted with carefully laid out sculptures and intricately designed buildings. There is also the facility of battery operated car which takes you for an enchanting tour of Shilparamam with a minimal charge.<p>Shilparamam shopping is the famous not just residents of Hyderabad but also among tourists. Craftsmen from all over India, display their works here, varying from traditional jewellery, hand-woven saris, shawls, dresses, bed sheets, etc; and hand-crafted wooden and metal wares. If you are looking for some street shopping, you have option for that too. There are many shops selling clothing of every kind in cheaper rates. All you require is some flair for bargaining.
Necklace Road;necklace;17.434862;78.476041;8.00 A.M - 10.00 P.M;;;One of the prominent tourist spots of Hyderabad, Necklace Road presents a fun filled yet calm environment to spend some relaxed moments. Built in the same way as the Queen’s Necklace of Mumbai, the Necklace Road of Hyderabad also resembles a necklace.<p>Stretched across a length of three-kilometre, Necklace Road connects three major parks of the city, namely NTR Gardens, Lumbini Park and Sanjeevaiah Park. The road runs from NTR Gardens and Lumbini Park in Hyderabad to Sanjeevaiah Park in Secunderabad. And from Sanjeevaiah Park it runs to the Tank Bund Road which is later connected to the NTR Gardens. This gives it a shape of a necklace.<p>The Eat Street at the road offers you not just delicious snacks to munch on but also a range of different cuisine to taste. If you are looking for a place for a fine dining experience, then there is a waterfront restaurant at the necklace road as well.
Jalavihar;jalavihar;17.432797;78.464586;11:00 A.M – 7:00 P.M;Below 3 Feet Height Rs.150/- Per Person<n>3 Feet or Above 3 Feet Height Rs.250/- Per Person;040-65581143;A popular amusement park, Jalavihar Hyderabad is situated on the Necklace Road which is in the heart of twin cities-Hyderabad and Secunderabad. An entertaining place to be with family, Jalavihar Water Park in Hyderabad, presents innumerable number of rides to its guests. There are wide range of water games as well as dry rides which are offered here, catering to both adults and kids. Games such as family slide, Mini aqua trailers, Tilt bucket, Mushroom Umbrella, Float slide and Pendulum are just a few of the choices that will keep you happy throughout your day at Jalavihar.<p>Not only water slides, Jalavihar has a variety of dry rides as well. Although visitors have to pay extra fee for each of the dry rides, trying one or two of the rides is worth the money. Some more exciting options that will find here are Mini Coarsely, Mini train, Super-Jet, Battery cars, Mini rainbow wheel, Mini joker, Battery bikes, Air hockey, Water shooter, Basketball, Bungee Trampoline and many more. For video game’s lovers there is facility of that as well.
Snow World;snowworld;17.4145593;78.4786032;11.00 A.M - 8.00 P.M;Rs.450 for Adult (4ft 6inch & above)<n>Rs.250 for Child (2ft to 4ft 6inch)<n>Rs.300 for College Students (above 10th Class)<n>Rs.250 for School Students (upto 10th Class);040-65990169;The temperature inside the Snow World varies from 0 to 5 degree Celsius. Its offer visitors with an experience of snow clad hill station with snow falling from above and amazing landscapes. Adventurous sports like trekking up the slope with many other people make your visit all the more exciting. Along with this, other activities that one can do in Snow World are ice skating, ice boarding, snow slides with bumping-car, toboggan rides, etc.<p>Games like Snow volley Ball, Snow Merry-Go-Round, snow basket ball, Snow Dancing are quite popular. You will also find Snow sculptures and Snow Mountain here. There is also a Cryo Zone which showcases a natural snowscape consisted of igloos, alpine trees along with simulated polar bears and penguins. In the cryo zone, there is a special snow play area for children. There are many interesting rides which have the potential to turn any kid here into the happiest kid in the world!.<p>The temperature inside the Snow World varies from 0 to 5 degree Celsius. Its offer visitors with an experience of snow clad hill station with snow falling from above and amazing landscapes. Adventurous sports like trekking up the slope with many other people make your visit all the more exciting. Along with this, other activities that one can do in Snow World are ice skating, ice boarding, snow slides with bumping-car, toboggan rides, etc.<p>Games like Snow volley Ball, Snow Merry-Go-Round, snow basket ball, Snow Dancing are quite popular. You will also find Snow sculptures and Snow Mountain here. There is also a Cryo Zone which showcases a natural snowscape consisted of igloos, alpine trees along with simulated polar bears and penguins. In the cryo zone, there is a special snow play area for children. There are many interesting rides which have the potential to turn any kid here into the happiest kid in the world!
Wonderla;wonderla;17.217175;78.529222;10.00 A.M - 7.00 P.M;Adult: Rs.990/-<n>Child: Rs.790/-;091000 63636;Wonderla Amusement and Waterpark is undoubtedly a place of unlimited fun and boundless entertainment. Bestowed with Certificate of Excellence – 2015, Wonderla has been maintaining international standards of facilities along with an extensive array of dry and water rides and games, since its day of inception.<p>One of the best entertainment parks not only in India but in Asia too, Wonderla Amusement and Waterpark is now opened in Hyderabad as well. Other two Wonderla parks are located in Bangalore and Kochi.<p>Wonderla Hyderabad Amusement & Water Park had been opened for public now, before than the previous estimation according to which this amusement park was to be functional and open to public by 2017. It is now open, promising visitors with a range of thrilling rides and other entertaining activities. It is calculated that a cost of over 2.5 billion has been invested for the construction of this amusement park. It is located in Kongara Khurd A Village, Ravirala Post, Maheshwaram Mandal.<p>Synonymous to entertainment, WonderLa amusement park promises a memorable trip to everyone. Its state-of-the-art land rides and thrilling water rides, gives an experience that is unmatched to any other. An amazing range of water rides, dry rides along with high thrill rides and dedicated rides for kids, keep every visitor happy and thrilled. There are around 43 thrilling rides to keep every visitor allured. Along with this, excellent dining choices and a wide array of facilities make the experience even better.
