Hyderabadi Biryani;hydbiryani;-1;-1;;;;You can’t talk about biryanis without mentioning the Hyderabadi Biryani. Cooked with either mutton or chicken, and laced with rich ingredients, this recipe is the stairway to heaven. Believe it or not, this dish is such a favorite that people don’t mind having it for breakfast, lunch or dinner!<p>Bawarchi,Paradise, Shadah, Cafe Bahar, Mohini, Sohail are few best places to entertain the tastae buds with authentic briyani.
Mirchi ka Salan;salan;-1;-1;;;;Having a slow day? Let the hot-pungent taste of Mirchi ka Salan give you the kick you so badly crave. The perfect balance in the dish comes from the coconut paste that is added for a unique, refreshing flavour. This dish will make you come back for more!
Hyderabad Marag;marag;-1;-1;;;;What's a better way to start your meal than a spicy-meaty soup? You may have tried several soups but you will instantly become a fan of Hyderabadi Marag. Light in texture and prepared with tender mutton, it is the perfect starter that will keep you hooked.
Keema Samosa;samosa;-1;-1;;;;Samosa + Keema = Need to have it right now! This is something that will perk up your appetite instantly. You don’t need an occasion to try this little snack combo. And we bet you have never tasted something as tempting as these samosas!
Haleem;haleem;-1;-1;;;;Season of Ramzan and no one talks about any other dish than the Hyderabadi haleem. Not just for chicken lovers but veggie version is also available.<p>Iranians might have invented it!, but Hyderabad is where it's soul lies;
Lukhmi;lukhmi;-1;-1;;;;Hyderabadi treat is never complete without the authentic Lukhmis. These little squares of Maida filled with minced meat is just what you need to treat your taste buds. Dip it in hot chutney and savor the delectable flavor. Foodgasm guaranteed!
Irani Chai;iranichai;-1;-1;;;;To soak in the beuaty of Charminar early dawn with a cup of Irani chai, overlooking all its splendidness is a must do in list.<p>Pouring hot milk in the cup and adding boiled water with tea leaves, a flavourful beverage which will refresh you like anything. For all chai lovers, this Persian beverage is a must have.Best enjoyed with Osmania an Tie bisuits, dipped in and slurped.
Qabooli Biryani;qbiryani;-1;-1;;;;This is not just any other Hyderabadi Biryani! The vegetarian rice dish can easily give a tough competition to its non-vegetarian counterpart. It is made with nutty chana dal that provides the perfect crunch to the steaming soft biryani.
Qubani ka meetha;datesweet;-1;-1;;;;Qubani ka meetha (خوبانی کا میٹھا) is an Indian dessert made from dried apricots originating from Hyderabad. It is a common feature at Hyderabadi weddings.<p>Khubani or Khobani is Urdu for apricot; it is believed that apricots were introduced to the subcontinent by Central Asians.<p>Dried apricots from Afghanistan are especially prized for their flavor. Khubani ka meetha is a very popular dessert of Hyderabadi cuisine.<p>Preparation of the dish involves boiling apricots with syrup until they assume the consistency of a thick soup or compote. The dessert is topped with blanched almonds or apricot kernels, and is traditionally garnished with malai (extra thick cream, ideally from buffalo milk), but also with custard or ice cream.
Pathar-ka-Gosht;pathar;-1;-1;;;;Pathar-ka-Gosht - (Urdu - پتھر کا گوشت ) is a popular lamb dish, especially prepared in Hyderabad, Telangana, India. This dish is prepared with mutton by heating it on a wide stone, on a flame. The spices are added once the meat pieces are heated and served with onions and other ingredients. It is very famous in South India and also a must to have dish in most of the functions
Maghaz Masala;maghaz;-1;-1;;;;Maghaz means 'brain' and masala means 'spice'. This spicy brain fry is a famous lamb dish from Hyderabad. The thick, fiery gravy with juicy meat is a must try for every non-veg lover. The best way to enjoy this traditional Hyderabadi recipe is by eating it with your hands. And don't forget to lick your fingers in the end.
Shahi Tukda;shahi;-1;-1;;;;Time to keep the foodathon going. And what better way to do it than rich, creamy Hyderabadi sweets. Shahi Tukda, made with bread and cream, is the most sumptuous dessert you'll have ever tasted. Its rich taste will transport you to the era of the royals and nawabs. The best part is that it tastes equally delicious when served hot or cold.