Hussain Sagar;hussainsagar;17.415624;78.475004;8.00 A.M - 10.00 P.M;No entry fee<n> Rs.55 per Adult for Mechanised Boat<n>Rs.35 per Adult for Mechanised Boat<n>Rs.250 per Person for Jet Ski Boat<n>Rs.300 per Couple for Jet Ski Boat<n>Rs.100 per Person for Rajahamsa Boat (min 5 persons)<n>Rs.400 per Person for Para Sailing;+91 1800 4254 6464;Situated just 2km away from the heart of the city, Hussain Sagar is one of the most popular tourist places in Hyderabad. The lake connects two parts of the city (Secunderabad and Hyderabad) to each other. The largest artificial lake in Asia, Hussain Sagar lake was excavated in 1562 AD during the reign of Ibrahim Quli Qutub Shah. Built on the tributary of River Musi, the lake has been named after Hussain Shah Wali. Hussain Sagar Lake was initially to build to cater to the irrigation needs and other water needs of the city. Until the year of 1930, it was used for the same purpose.<p>Having been bordered by Indira Park in the east, Sanjeevaiah Park in the north and Lumbini Park in the south, the lake presents a setting quite rare to find in the middle of any city. There is also a bund on its banks, which was built to control the flow of water. This artificial lake now beautifies the city gracefully. Not just for beauty, it is also known for its historical connection. On the banks of this Hussain Sagar Lake the treaty between Mughals and Golconda was signed.<p>At the middle of the lake, you will find a huge statue of standing Lord Buddha which has height of 16 m and weighs almost 350 tonnes. Made up of white granite, the statue is on the ‘Rock of Gibraltar’. The lighting show at the statue is something that is worth watching.A popular recreational spot, the Hussain Sagar Lake attracts visitors of all age groups. Whether a family picnic or outing with friends or your partner, this lake is visited by every Hyderabadi. Boating at the lake is quite enjoyable. There are various options of boating at Hussain Sagar Lake such as speed boats, motor boats, etc.
OsmanSagar lake;gandipet;17.380535;78.299286;9.30 A.M - 5.00 P.M;Rs.5 per person;040-66049545;Gardens, waterfalls and lakes such as Gandipet Lake present a beautiful touch of nature around the city of Hyderabad. Also known as Osman Sagar, Gandipet Lake is spread across an area of 46 Km.<p>Osman Sagar Lake has been named after the late seventh Nizam of Hyderabad Mir Osman Ali Khan who in 1920 built a Dam over the lake so as to protect the city from flooding. The Dam is the main reservoir for the twin cities - Hyderabad and Secunderabad. This lake is now one of the main sources of drinking water for both Hyderabad and Secunderabad.<p>Along with this the lake makes for an amazing sightseeing option as well. The sunset and sunrise at the lake are simply mesmerising. Osman Sagar, Gandipet, is often visited by families and those who are looking for some peaceful time away from the hustle bustle of the city. The lawn towards the lower side of the lake offers a picturesque ambience, dotted with lush greenery by the side of vast lake body. It presents a perfect setting for family outings. It is one of the popular one day picnic spots in Hyderabad, where families and friends can relax and spend some time amid the refreshing atmosphere. Many visitors bring their own food and games to play in this serene environment. For others, there is also a cafeteria here<p>Go for boating at the lake and experience the calm water and beautiful surroundings. The best time to visit lake is during months of October to March, when the climate is much cooler to sit out and enjoy the soothing surrounding.
Shamirpet Lake;shamirpet;17.612314;78.561982;9.00 A.M - 5.00 P.M;Rs.1 for children<n>Rs.2 for adult;;d<p>Shamirpet Lake is a man-made lake located in Ranga Reddy district near Hyderabad, India. It’s located exactly 24 kms north from Secunderabad and it was built during the rule of Nizam Kings during the late 19th century. Shamirpet Lake is very fine looking lake and its serene & calm environs makes it a great place to enjoy a lovely time. Near in the vicinity of Shamirpet Lake we have Deer Park too & the combination of both makes it a natural habitat for deer. Shamirpet Lake is also know as ‘Pedda Cheruvu’.<p>Shamirpet Lake lake was dug more than 50 years ago by the Jagirdar of Shamirpet area to serve as the source of water in the near vicinity. Shamirpet Lake was then identified as the point of interest and Andhra Pradesh government took the charge of developing it.<p>Shamirpet Deer Park, also known as Jawahar Deer Park is the most attracted destination with 128 deer, 15 different species of snakes and birds. This deer park is spread over 80 acres of land. The park was started in 1971.<p>Shamirpet Lake is one of the nearest picnic spot for the people of Hyderabad and on weekends it serves large gatherings of families.
Durgama Cheruvu;durgama;17.430876;78.391819;10.00 A.M - 6.30 P.M;No Entry Fee<n>Rs.20 per trip for Putty<n>Boating: Mechanized Boat, Water Scooter & Pedal Boat are also available;09848011769;Situated quite close to the Hi-tech City, Durgam Cheruvu is one of the popular sightseeing places of Hyderabad. Presenting captivating scenic beauty, the lake is also known as the ‘Secret Lake’. This can be because of the fact that it is hidden by the surrounding granite rocks. The rock formations surrounding the lake are spread across an area of 63 acres of land and are said to be approximately 2500 million years old.<p>Currently it has been developed into a hangout place where people come and spend some time in a relaxed environment by the side of a calm water body. Durgam Cheruvu now has an artificial waterfall and floating fountain which attracts more visitors. It is nothing less than a pleasant wonder to see a calm lake and rocks, beside the concrete buildings of offices and a shopping mall.<p>It is said that the lake was used as the source of drinking water for the Golconda Fort. Also called as the ‘Madhapur Lake’, Durgam Cheruvu promises some refreshing moments to each and everyone.It is a common venue for film shootings, owing to its scenic beauty and unique location.
NTR Gardens;ntrgarden;17.412596;78.468784;12.30 A.M - 9.00 P.M;Rs.15/- per Adult<n>Rs:-10/- per child<n>Rs:-30/- for Still Camera<n>Rs:-65/- for camcorder;040-23450337;NTR Garden is located near famous Hussain Sagar lake. It is a very popular garden in Hyderabad for local and well as for tourists. NTR Garden is named after Late. Shri N.T.RAMARAO GARU, former chief minister of Andhra Pradesh State. NTR Garden is a very well maintained garden. It is spread on 33 acres.The Total cost of this garden was around Rs.40cr. and it was opened for general public in the year 2002 .<p>NTR Garden has a mind blowing collection of various flowering plants and trees. One can find various kinds of options for relaxation in NTR Garden like Japanese Garden, Toy Train, Fruit Restaurant, Roaring cascade, Tree House, fountain, Joy Rides etc. You will also find World famous Paradise Biriyani Restaurant.  Kids will enjoy mini train ride which will take them around the garden.<p>One of the latest additions to the NTR garden is the Desert Garden, brian child of Mr. Nitish Roy, who has designed this project. It is consisted of about 150 plant varieties, mainly of those plans which are commonly referred as desert plants such as cacti, succulents, etc. The plants, which also boast of medicinal importance and are used for various herbal remedies, have been brought to Hyderabad from various parts of the country.
Nehru Zoological Park;zoopark;17.351132;78.448943;8.30 A.M - 4.30 P.M(except Monday);Rs.20 per Adult<n>Rs.10 per Child<n>Rs.20 for Amateur Still Camera<n>Rs.100 for Amateur Video Camera<n>Rs.500 for Professional Video Camera<n>Rs.1500 for trucks for film shooting<n>Rs.1000 for Car/Jeep;040-24477355;Located at a distance of 16 km from Hyderabad, Nehru Zoological Park was opened to the public in the year of 1963. Situated near Mir Alam Tank of Hyderabad, Nehru Zoological Park is the largest zoo of India and one of the top tourism places to visit in Hyderabad. Run by the Forest department, Government of Telangana, the zoo has been named after Jawaharlal Nehru, the first prime minister of the country.<n>Spread over an area of approximately 380 acres, the Nehru Zoo Park boasts of almost 1,500 species of birds, animals and reptiles. The zoo has rich fauna including the avian fauna as well such as Indian Rhino, Asiatic Lion, Tiger, Panther, Giraffe, Gaur, Deer, Antelopes, Orangutan, and many more. The place also has a rich population of reptiles such as Crocodile, Python, etc.<n>Facility of boating, both speed boat as well passenger’s boat, at the Mir Alam Lake is also offered here. Along with this, the authorities are also putting efforts in creating awareness about the wild life among masses. Weekly educational classes and awareness events are being conducted at regular intervals. Tiger talk, elephant talk, canine a class, snake awareness shows, etc., are a few examples.
Lumbini Park;lumbini;17.410016;78.473241;9.00 A.M - 9.00 P.M;Rs.10 per person<n>Rs.50 per person for Speed Boating<n>Rs.40 per person for Boating<n>Rs.50 per person for Laser Show;09989336911;Lumbini Park Hyderabad was developed by the Hyderabad Urban Development Authority in the year of 1994. Perfect place for relaxation and amusement, Lumbini Park has been named after birthplace of Siddhartha who later came to be known as Lord Buddha. The park is part of the Buddha Purnima project of Hyderabad Urban Development Authority. After the later Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, this park was renamed at the T. Anjaiah Lumbini Park in the year of 2006. However, popularly it is still known by the name of Lumbini Park.<p>ituated quite close to the famous standing statue of Lord Buddha and Hussain Sagar Lake, the largest artificial lake of Asia, the Lumbini Park is a place worth visiting. An apt place for relaxation, this park is visited by everyone. It is quite popular among kids. For kids, there are fun rides. It is more like a mini entertainment park right in the middle of the city, by the side of an beautiful lake.<p>One of the main attractions of the Lumbini Park is the giant clock at the entrance of the park which has been designed using various kinds of colourful flowering plants. Along with seasonal flowering plants, wide variety of cacti and rocks, the park also has many options to keep kids entertained. The Musical fountain and water cascades attract everyone. The sight of water shooting up to the sky, making a screen of water where the history of Hyderabad is being shown is something not many of us have seen before. It is an experience in itself. The best part of laser show is that just 3D. You will see a city created in 3D right at a park.<p>Musical fountain and the laser show at the Lumbini Park is something not to be missed. The timing of the musical fountain is from 6.30 P.M. and 8 P.M. As for Lumbini park laser show timings, it happens twice, at 7.15 pm and 8.30 pm.
KBR Park;kbrpark;17.4205891;78.4215581;5.30 A.M - 10.00 A.M<n>4.30 P.M - 6.30 P.M;Rs.20 per Adult<n>Rs.10 per Child<n>Rs.400 Monthly Fee per Person<n>Rs.1000 Yearly Fee per Senior Citizen<n>Rs.1500 Yearly Fee per Person;040-23555463;Kasu Brahmananda Reddy Park, popularly known as KBR National Park is a vast spread of lush greenery and rich fauna which is located in the middle of Hyderabad city- Jubilee Hills. Named after former Chief Minister Kasu Brahmananda Reddy, this park promises rejuvenating nature amid the concrete buildings and traffic of city life. A popular place to visit in Hyderabad, this park, along with its picturesque beauty and rich flora and fauna, is also historically significant. Chiran Palace of former Hyderabad’s Nizam is a place worth seeing. It was established in the year of 1994 with an aim to preserve the nature of this area. One of the popular tourist places, KBR Park is a must visit when on a Hyderabad Tour.<p>KBR National Park boasts of rich flora and fauna which is accompanied by a refreshing environment that is ideal of relaxing. There are around 600 varied species of trees and plants trees in the park. The park has equally rich fauna. It has around 140 species of avian fauna along with 20 species of reptiles and 20 species of mammals. There are around 15 different species of butterflies as well.<p>This area was declared as National Park in 1998 by the State Government, after getting the approval of central government. It was later declared as Kasu Brahmananda Reddy National Park in the memory of Late Chief Minister Kasu Brahmananda Reddy who was one of the popular leaders of the state.<p>One of the prominent sites in KBR Park is the Chiran Palace, personal residence of the prince and his family, which is spread over an area of 6,000 sq. metres. This palace was built in the year of 1960. In 1967 it was handover by Prince Azam Jah to his son Prince Mukarram Jah. The entry gate to Chiran Palace is different from the main gate of KBR National Park. There are other various other properties in the same complex, namely Gol Bungalow, Mor bungalow, stables for horses, elephants and cattle, petrol pump, wells and water tanks, motor khana, etc.
Botanical Gardens;bgardens;17.4567309;78.3609001;5.30 A.M - 8.00 P.M;Rs.10 per person<n>Rs.15 for Still Camera<n>Monthly pass availale for morning walkers;1800 4254 6464;Botanical Garden of Hyderabad is also one of the interesting sightseeing places in Hyderabad offering a refreshing setting and rich flora. Having been developed by the Forest Departments, Botanical Garden is situated in Madhapur near the Hi-tech City which is almost 16 km away from centre of the city.<p>The land for botanical garden has been allotted in in the Kothaguda Reserve Forest for the purpose of preserving natural flora and fauna. Spread across an area of 120 acres, this garden is consisted of 19 Vanams or sectors. It first was opened with 5 sectors constituting of various kinds of flora such as medicinal plants, ornamental plants, fruit and timber trees, bamboos, palm trees along with wide variety of aquatic plants.<p>Botanical garden boasts of more than 600 varied species of plants. The garden is bestowed with dense flora with a few sparsely grown areas for visitors’ walking. Along with its vast flora variety, it also attracts many birds and insects, which further enhances the natural charm of this garden. Bamboo sector is the major attraction of the garden. All the bamboo trees have specific signboard with the scientific name and generic name of the trees. Another popular sector of the Botanical Garden is the Palm sector. Variety of flowers such as yellow and purple, blue Salvia, red Roselia and many more makes the place all the more attractive and picturesque. Along with meadows, it was created with ample of space for water bodies and natural rock formations as well.<p>The park has been designed beautifully with water bodies complementing the lush greenery of the place. This garden was created with the objective of generating awareness among masses about the varied species of flora along with offering an ideal place to relax and enjoy the bliss of naturally beautiful surroundings. It is a perfect place to spend few refreshing moments away from the pollution and chaos of the cities. It also act as stock-house for plants which are later used for researches and other scientific purposes.
Indira Park;indirapark;17.4131357;78.4830749;4.50 A.M - 7.30 P.M;Rs.5 per Adult<n>Rs.1 per Child;040 2761 1454;Situated near the Lower Tank Bund road, quite close to the Hussain Sagar Lake, Indira Park lies in the heart of the city. Spread over an area of 76 acres, it has been named after the former Prime Minister of India Mrs. Indira Gandhi. It is considered to be one of the oldest parks of Hyderabad. A popular tourist place in Hyderabad, Indira park is quite popular among everyone. It is an ideal place if you want to spend a few moments with nature, away from the chaos and pollution.<p> This park is now maintained and managed by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority. In the year of 1994, various other sections such as musical dancing fountain and waterfalls were added to the park, further enhancing its appearance. Again during the years 2000-2002, Indira Park Hyderabad was renovated when a few more features were added to it. Now, you can find an expansive tennis court inside the Indira Park. Living rock sanctuary which showcases many amazing rock sculptures is another attraction of the park. New varieties of roses have also been added to its breathtaking rose garden, increasing its beauty by many folds.<p>Indira Park has many attractive features, which can keep you busy even throughout the day. Computerized musical fountains, amazing rock garden, and nursery, where you can even buy plants.Birdwatchers can spend time spotting various species of avian fauna. Indira Park has a rich fauna as well as flora. Along with date palms, mango trees, blackberry trees, and kevuda plantations, you can see sandalwood trees across the park.<p>Skating at Indira Park is another reason which draws visitors from every corner of the city. For early morning visitors, there is a jogging track on the sides of the park. Many people can be seen taking long walks along the path, starting their day with refreshing surrounding of the area.
